# Using Convolutional Neural Networks to Accelerate Stress Analysis
Finite element, finite difference, and finite volume methods are among the most popular methods for solving partial differential equations governing many problems in engineering and material sciences. Calculating stress distribution in physical systems requires extensive computational resources through implementing software packages, and can take hours, days or weeks to execute for complex geometries. More importantly, the simulation need to be redone from scratch to apply new boundary conditions or material properties during the design process. These drawbacks of conventional stress analysis methods limit opportunities for interactive design. Recent advances in deep learning algorithms demonstrate that by approperiate selection of models and with the cost of minor additional computational errors we can significantly accelerate the stress analysis methods. In this note, I discuss the feasibility of complementing finite volume method with deep learning through providing a case study. The outcomes show that using Convolutional Neural Network method, we can reduce the computational time by 82%, while obtaining the results with 94% accuracy.

## Introduction
Recent studies have shown the possibility of incorporating machine learning (ML) and deep learning methods to obtain faster and less costly solutions for stress analysis problems. Nguyen-Thien and Tran-Cong [1] showed the capability of Artificial Neural Network (ANN) methods in implementing numerical approximation of functions of several variables and their first and second order partial derivatives. Martin-Guerrerohas et al. [2] demonstrated the feasibility of using ANN to model the deformations produced in human soft tissue with high accuracy. They used finite element method (FEM) to produce the datasets of deformation to feed the ML algorithm. Kononenko and Kononenko [3] as well as Javadi et al. [4] integrated neural networks with finite element method to analyse stress distribution simple one dimensional problems. 
Here, I use finite volume method (FVM) to calculate the stress distribution on a 2 plate with a circular hole for various forces applied. I use the generated dataset of results to train a 3 layer Convolutional Neural Netwrok (CNN) model and predict stress distribution over the plate for uncalculated forces. The results will be compared to the test data to calculate the accuracy of the model.

## Methodology
### Geometry


